Release notes for 8.4.0 (#14458)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/releasenotes.asciidoc

[[logstash-8-4-0]]
=== Logstash 8.4.0 Release Notes

[[features-8.4.0]]
==== New features and enhancements

* This release brings some significant improvements to helping users manage their dead letter queues, including:
 ** The introduction of a `clean_consumed` option on the Dead Letter Queue input plugin, that will automatically

>     delete segments from a dead letter queue, once all their events have been consumed by a logstash pipeline.

Reviewer: ``` 
A new a `clean_consumed` option on the Dead Letter Queue input plugin.
```
Should be 

```
A new `clean_consumed` option on the Dead Letter Queue input plugin.
```

>     delete segments from a dead letter queue, once all their events have been consumed by a logstash pipeline.

Reviewer: Also, I wonder if 

```
It can automatically delete segments from a dead letter queue after all events have been consumed by a Logstash pipeline.
```
is ambiguous, and doesn't convey that a segment is deleted once all of the events in that segment have been consumed, rather than all events from a logstash pipeline?

 ** The introduction of an age retention policy, enabling the automatic removal of segments from a dead letter queue
    based on the age of events within those segments.
 ** We now expose further dead letter queue metrics on the monitoring API https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14324[#14324]
* Many AWS plugins are now bundled in a single integration plugin, enabling easier maintenance and upgrades of AWS based

>   plugins, which are now using version 3 of the AWS Ruby SDK.

Reviewer: ```
[[dlq-8.4.0]]
```

should be something like 
```
[[aws-8.4.0]]
```

>   plugins, which are now using version 3 of the AWS Ruby SDK.

Reviewer 2: Yes! A duplicate anchor would fail the build. Thanks!

* Logstash now comes bundled with JDK17, while still providing compatibility with user-supplied JDK11.
* Logstash is now available for download on M1 equipped MacOS devices, and come bundled with M1 native JDK17.

[[notable-8.4.0]]
==== Notable issues fixed

* Only remove `/etc/systemd/system/logstash.service` when file is installed by Logstash https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14200[#14200]
* Fix Arcsight module compatibility with Elasticsearch `8.x` https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/13874[#13874]

> * Ensure timestamp values are serialized with a minimum of 3 decimal places to ensure millisecond precision timestamps match those from Logstash `7.x` https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14299[#14299]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure that timestamp values are serialized with a minimum of 3 decimal places to guarantee that millisecond precision timestamps match those from Logstash `7.x` https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14299[#14299]
```

* Fix issue with native Java plugin thread-safety and concurrency https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14360[#14360]
* Allow the ability to use Ruby codecs inside native Java plugins https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/13523[#13523]

[[dependencies-8.4.0]]
==== Updates to dependencies

* The bundled JDK has been updated to 17.0.4+8 https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14427[#14427]

> * The version of Sinatra has been update to 2.2.2  https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14454[#14454]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The version of Sinatra has been updated to 2.2.2  https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14454[#14454]
```

> * The version of Nokogiri has been update to 1.13.8 https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14454[#14454]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The version of Nokogiri has been updated to 1.13.8 https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14454[#14454]
```

[[plugins-8.4.0]]
==== Plugin releases

*Dead Letter Queue Input - 2.0.0*

* Introduce the boolean `clean_consumed` setting to enable the automatic removal of completely consumed segments. Requires Logstash 8.4.0 or above https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-input-dead_letter_queue/pull/43[#43]

> * Exposes metrics about segments and events cleaned by this plugin https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-input-dead_letter_queue/pull/45[#45]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Expose metrics about segments and events cleaned by this plugin https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-input-dead_letter_queue/pull/45[#45]
```

*Xml Filter - 4.2.0*

* Update Nokogiri dependency version https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-filter-xml/pull/78[#78]

> * Aws Integration Plugin - 7.0.0*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Aws Integration Plugin - 7.0.0*
```

> * Introduce AWS Integration Plugin. This is an integrated plugin, incorporating and replace the use of the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This new integration plugin incorporates and replaces the use of the these individual plugins:
```

  individual plugins:
  ** logstash-input-s3 (3.8.4)
  ** logstash-input-sqs (3.3.2)
  ** logstash-mixin-aws (5.1.0)
  ** logstash-output-cloudwatch (3.0.10)
  ** logstash-output-s3 (4.3.7)
  ** logstash-output-sns (4.0.8)

>   ** logstash-output-sqs (6.0.0)

Reviewer 2: Should we remove the old version numbers?

Reviewer: Yes, I think so

[[dependencies-8.4.0]]
==== Updates to dependencies

* The bundled JDK has been updated to 17.0.4+8 https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14427[#14427]
* The version of Sinatra has been updated to 2.2.2  https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14454[#14454]
* The version of Nokogiri has been updated to 1.13.8 https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14454[#14454]

[[plugins-8.4.0]]
==== Plugin releases

*Dead Letter Queue Input - 2.0.0*

* Introduce the boolean `clean_consumed` setting to enable the automatic removal of completely consumed segments. Requires Logstash 8.4.0 or above https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-input-dead_letter_queue/pull/43[#43]
* Expose metrics about segments and events cleaned by this plugin https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-input-dead_letter_queue/pull/45[#45]

*Xml Filter - 4.2.0*

* Update Nokogiri dependency version https://github.com/logstash-plugins/logstash-filter-xml/pull/78[#78]

*Aws Integration Plugin - 7.0.0*

* This new integration plugin incorporates and replaces the use of the these individual plugins:
  individual plugins:

>   ** logstash-input-s3 (3.8.4)
>   ** logstash-input-sqs (3.3.2)
>   ** logstash-mixin-aws (5.1.0)
>   ** logstash-output-cloudwatch (3.0.10)
>   ** logstash-output-s3 (4.3.7)
>   ** logstash-output-sns (4.0.8)
>   ** logstash-output-sqs (6.0.0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ** logstash-input-s3 
  ** logstash-input-sqs 
  ** logstash-mixin-aws 
  ** logstash-output-cloudwatch 
  ** logstash-output-s3 
  ** logstash-output-sns 
  ** logstash-output-sqs 
```

[[logstash-8-4-0]]
=== Logstash 8.4.0 Release Notes

[[features-8.4.0]]
==== New features and enhancements

[[dlq-8.4.0]]
===== Improvements to the dead letter queue (DLQ)

> This release brings significant improvements to help users manage their dead letter queues, including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release brings significant improvements to help users manage their dead letter queues, including:

```

Reviewer 2: Adding a return to force the UL to render correctly

[[logstash-8-4-0]]
=== Logstash 8.4.0 Release Notes

[[features-8.4.0]]
==== New features and enhancements

[[dlq-8.4.0]]
===== Improvements to the dead letter queue (DLQ)

This release brings significant improvements to help users manage their dead letter queues, including:

* A new `clean_consumed` option on the Dead Letter Queue input plugin.
It can automatically delete segments from a dead letter queue after all events in the segment have been consumed by a Logstash pipeline.
 * A new age retention policy, enabling the automatic removal of segments from a dead letter queue
    based on the age of events within those segments.
 * Additional dead letter queue metrics available from the monitoring API https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/14324[#14324]

> [[aws-8.4.0]]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

[[aws-8.4.0]]
```

===== New AWS integration plugin

> Several AWS plugins are now bundled in a single {ls-ref}/plugins-integrations-aws.html[AWS integration plugin], enabling easier maintenance and upgrades of AWS-based

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Several AWS plugins are now bundled in a single {logstash-ref}/plugins-integrations-aws.html[AWS integration plugin], enabling easier maintenance and upgrades of AWS-based
```
